# COMP3015 CW2
# Thomas O'Toole
 
This application was written using Microsoft Visual Studio 2022, Version 17.7.6, on the Windows 10 Operating System.

This application has been designed to load two 3D models - a 'work-in-progress' model used for a Final Year Project, and a simple gold room for background decoration. It applies shading, lighting and rendering to them in real time. The application was written using a combination of the C++, OpenGL and GLSL programming languages.

This coursework was extended from my earlier submission, CW1 (found here: https://github.com/tomo888/COMP3015-CW1). The main addition is that this coursework replaces the Blinn-Phong lighting model present in the previous submission with a Physically-Based Rendering (PBR) lighting system. This was implemented as it offers greater detail in the light compared to Blinn-Phong due to PBR effectively mimicking the way light works and the way it interacts with surfaces in reality - it achieves this utilizing a more complex model that takes into account several physical proprerties of materials present on surfaces, such as albedo, metalness, roughness etc. As this implies, this allows the developer to not only implement more realistic lighting in a scene, but also edit the surfaces' materials in the scene to achieve a variety of effects, offering greater creative freedom. This can be demonstrated by the changes made to the background room in this submission - it now looks it is made out of gold, with a different colour palette and shininess effect, adding some regal flair to the scene. The final changes to this submission were the correct implementation of texturing to the character model, so it now appears as intended; and the .exe build now works independent of Visual Studio. This didn't work previously as, despite performing the necessarry external dependency linking in the Debug version of the previous build, this was also required in the Release version. Project files, such as media, helpers etc also had to be moved to the Release folder. Overall, this submission is much closer to my original creative intent than CW1, with added lighting and background details.

In terms of how the program functions and what each part of it does, below is a summary of each file's purpose:

- main.cpp: Unchanged from the last submission, this is the program's entry point, and creates an instannce of the scenebasic_uniform class.
- scenebasic_uniform.h: This handles method and variable initialization for the .cpp file, as previous. Compared to the last submission, this has new variables and methods primarily as a result of the new PBR lighting system, such as     float lightAngle;, void drawScene(); etc.
- scenebasic_uniform.cpp: This is responsible for setting up the window/scene, as well as rendering the lights and models into said scene. It is the same in intention as its predecessor, albeit working with the PBR lighting model rather than the Blinn-Phong lighting model. The biggest change as a result is that models are now rendered in their own unique methods - DrawScene, DrawRoom and DrawModel -, rather than being handled in initScene. This is done so that parameters for the surface materials' properties, such as roughness, metallic-ness etc can be passed into the model initialization. This also has the positive byproduct of making the code slightly more decoupled and readable, as users can now see clearly where the rendering is happening specifically.
- basic_uniform.vert: Responsible for transforming model vertices/model space into clip space, as well as normals/texture coordinates calculation. Mostly unchanged, with a slight change to the VertexTexCoord's location due to an error in the last submission, fixing the texturing issue present with the character model.
- basic_uniform.frag: Perhaps the file that has undergone the most change, this receives data regarding the geomeotry of the scene from the vertex shader before then handling the calculations necessarry to make the PBR lighting function as intended in the scene. It's also responsible for handling texture mapping and computing colours for each fragment/pixel in the scene.

To open the .exe files and see the application in action, the user should navigate to the Release folder found in the project directory - x64 -> Release, and then click on 'Project_Template.exe'.

The Project Solution file can be found Project_Template.sln, at the top of the file directory (ie. with the other project folders such as media etc).
